We will cut the RR and policy rate. We
will also cut central bank policy rate,
the 7-day repo rate. At the same time,
we will guide the LPR and the deposit
rate downward. We will also set up a
special reanding program for increasing
the holding of shares. We will enhance
the quality and value for investment of
listed companies to better serve
investors. We will make use of stocks,
bonds and futures among other capital
market tools to invigorate the
restructuring and M&A market.
>> Yeah, that was a throwback to almost
exactly a year back to really I think I
speak on behalf of the whole team this
that jaw drop moment.
>> I remember just like yesterday we're
like
>> literally on air
>> what are they saying? Did they just say
that
>> cut rates on live TV at 9:00 in the
morning?
>> Did they do that on top of cutting
interest rates? Um, so since then we've
actually uh made a tally here. 30 basis
points of rate cuts. I know it doesn't
sound like relatively speaking. 100
basis points of reserve ratio
requirements. On your screens is the
performance of the market. First green
line is the Big Bang moment. Deepseek is
in yellow. Liberation days in red.
Monetary easing which is the I think the
most recent round was early June, late
May, early June. And of course this
recent uh um second uh day taunts that
we've had in the trade conversation.
Markets rallied through pretty much the
most part of that but of course a lot of
that has been taking place recently.
Ivon.
>> Yeah. So you got to wonder right now is
the PBC expected to ease further this
time with the economy still under
pressure and the fed Fed cutting rates
now. This is what we heard from Pangan
yesterday right at that press briefing
late late afternoon. China's monetary
policy focuses on domestic priorities
while considering internal and external
balances. is now the PBOC has made clear
our macrolevel principles of determining
monetary policy. So pushing back a
little bit on the expectations out there
that they can cut
>> or when they should cut.
>> Yeah. Or the urgent need to do so. I
think
>> uh Johannes still here with us, head of
EM economics at Cityroup Global Market.
So you know since last year what's
what's changed?
>> That's a very good question. I mean
obviously the PBC presser was an unusual
kind of press conference and I think
there was aside from the rate easing
there was definitely a strong policy
signal about supporting asset prices
including both housing and equity but of
course a year later I think they've been
more successful on fueling the equity
obviously it's been helped by deepseek
and other policy efforts like
anti-evolution but the property market I
mean we've had a little bit of rebound
in the last quarter first quarter but it
kind of fizzled so real estate property
is still a big problem so at least on
asset prices the record is still mixed
uh if you look at we shouldn't look at
PBOC press conference in isolation there
was a series of events that happened
right we also had the unusual poly
bureau meeting that happened in
September and then we had a number of
policy steps that were happen and there
was a lot of communication about
supporting consumption supporting demand
kind of an effort towards rebalancing
but we take a year later look at the
data I would actually argue that China's
growth would arguably is even more
unbalanced like the contribution from
net exports to real GDP growth has even
gotten larger
>> so you're seeing cheap exports basically
all around the world except for the US
in some ways Right. Right. I mean is is
this going to be sort of to be a
problem?
>> Well, this is the debate, right? I mean,
yes, the first half of this year, they
exceeded the real GDP growth 5.3%. But
it a lot of it more than 30% was coming
from net exports. And the question is,
and if you look at the recent data,
export growth has been relatively
resilient in China for all the fear
about tariff. It ended up that China's
tariffs was not so bad relative to India
or even Azan, the tariff differential.
Meanwhile, if you look at the latest
data, we've seen especially in August,
we've had a number of weaker data, not
just on the supply side with cap, you
know, capacity cuts and the fact that
investment has slowed down, even
manufacturing investment, but also on
the demand side, right? You know, we've
had the fiscal front loading and that
came off. So, I think the worry is again
the growth is still very very
unbalanced. We're go a year later, we're
still now debating whether you're going
to need another policy support going
into September poly bureau meeting. And
then with the fifth platinum coming up
in October, there's a lot of a debate
whether this is really sustainable.
China really needs to boost demand much
more relative to supply. Otherwise,
running these large trade surplus and
and much of this is growing at the
expense of the global south does create
obviously some challenges for other
competing manufacturing in the region
whether it's Europe or even kind of the
lower value added like you know
Indonesia or India where they're losing
market share on labor labor intensive
manufactured goods. So you mentioned
fiscal easing needs to take up a you
know a quasi you know financial fiscal
easing needs to take up a bigger portion
of this. The a lot of that has so far
gone into things like debt to resolution
um managing the fiscal burdens of local
governments. How much is needed for
progrowth fiscal stimulus like directly
progrowth pro demand system.
>> So so China needs I mean both fiscal and
structural reform right structural
reform to kind of rebalance. So you're
right I mean there there was a little
bit of consumption support. I mean we
did see for example the consumer trade
in program we saw the child care subsidy
there was even something for elderly
care uh but you know have we seen
something bigger enough to get people to
remove kind of the precautionary savings
behavior and I think when we look at
excess savings and household deposit
it's still very very high so obviously
some of that at least is fueling into
equity market but the equity market
rally is really not enough to drive kind
of a kind of household wealth effect
second round effect because you know you
know Chinese households are not like US
households they don't have 401ks, you
know, that type of big source of wealth.
You really need something to kind of
generate a little bit more a kind of a
confidence in terms of saving. So again,
the debate is whether we will see more
reform of the social security welfare
pension reform. Uh which again we will
see what will happen in the fifth plenum
if there'll be strong signals with that.
we will probably still see more roll out
of targeted kind of consumption support
whether it's again more kind of
nationwide making it permanent more
forward looking for elderly care or
child care subsidies or unemployment
insurance etc but the other thing is the
trade-in program I mean after we've
launched this kind of durable goods
trade-in program and a lot of that what
was already front-loaded you know after
you buy an appliance you're not going to
buy it again there's a lot of talk since
there's a lot of talk about services
maybe the next round will be an
extension of the trading program for
services but you green services sector
because you need to create more jobs. I
think the problem is you still have jobs
income and you know we still haven't
addressed or nipped the butt on
deflation pressures. It it brings the
question anti-involution, right? Because
as you mentioned, all those all those
sort of challenges that you highlighted
come from the intense amount of price
competition. People are overworked. It's
it's causing a lot of labor shortages
and the like. So anti-evolution in order
for this to be succeed. What does it
have to look like beyond just supply
side cuts?
>> Right? Look, I mean, you know,
anti-involution, that's only one side,
like that's trying to address some of
the excess capacity. If you're just
going to focus on anti-involution and
nothing on the demand side, well, then
growth will really slow down. So the
issues really you really more need more
demand support and on the
anti-involution I mean obviously a lot
of people are focused on certain sectors
like steel or cement or coal or maybe
battery solar kind of the clean tech
price you know uh the question is
whether again if we have a proper
rebalancing whether other sectors might
also be targeted for anti-involution of
course the question is how how
successfully you'll do that but whether
it will extend to other industries like
chemical industry where there's a lot of
kind of anti-dumping anti-trade policy
which is impacting a lot of uh global
kind of other competing competing uh
industries. Uh but like I said, you
really need more on the demand side
because you know in the last couple of
five year plan when China does supply,
they're very good. But when it comes to
demand, it's kind of doesn't doesn't
really quite work. And if you're going
to do the other opposite where you're
curving supply but you're not really
supporting enough demand, then there's
going to be downside versus growth. And
I think they still need to do more on
the demand side because you need to
achieve your developmental goals.
There's a lot of talk about new growth
drivers that is AI going to be one of
them given just the technological
breakthroughs the productivity gains
that could come through it. Is that
going to be
>> I mean it's one of them but it's not
enough like it's you know it's obviously
an important part of it but you know you
still need to create jobs right you can
make an argument that AI could create
also a lot of potential disruption in
terms of job labor market creation job
creation at a time when you have still
very high youth unemployment so you know
you need really more services that's a
sector in the economy the consumption
services sector that's still relatively
underdeveloped where I think there was
this piece from the IMF last year saying
relative to a stage of development
services sector in China is still like
20% % you know lower than what it should
be. Uh and again part of the the
concerns about services sector in China
is it's still very heavily regulated.
Lots of you know state intervention,
state control and state ownership and
service trade restrictiveness. you know,
the the liberalization of services trade
has also been lagging uh what we've seen
in the manufactured goods trade.